---
layout: post-light-feature
title: Test Post
description: Response to "The Internet with a Human Face"
categories: articles
date: 2017-09-12
image: 
        feature: soft-trees.jpg
---
Maciej Ceglowski concluded his talk with a plea/urge/desperate cry to the audience: “You people are designers, treat it as a design problem.” In a sense, this statement brought Ceglowski’s talk full circle. When he began comparing the development of the web to the development of highway system under President Eisenhower, he threw around a variety of ideas as to why the present was designed in such a way that the future promised a car to every individual. There are three major strands of logics according to a breakdown of his statement. The first is innocence, or the fact that the designers acted out of best intentions, but could not force a future where cars would contribute to urban alienation and atomization. The second is that the economic interests of the parties involved demanded that every individual or individual household own a car. The third is that they foresaw no alternatives. I believe the approximate answer lies at the intersection of these last two reasons. First, the influence and lobbying of private companies is undeniable, as well as the government effort to create suburbia were motivated by the need to create an urban workforce, as many war vets preferred to move to places such as Vermont where they could enjoy a peaceful existence. This was a deliberate and interested push. However, at the same time what guided these architects at every level was the growing belief (which has culminated nowadays) that there are no alternatives to capitalism. Perhaps the biggest loss, added to the woes of alienation of and surveillance, is the loss of human potential that this results in. To be perfectly clear, I do not believe certain human beings have inherent skills and qualities that differentiate them from the rest. If the social landscape is permissible (a.k.a. everyone had a share in the immense wealth the world produces), I believe we can all excel and find fulfillment. However, our landscapes of economic inequality have succeeded in creating landscape of inequality in terms of skills and expertise. And although we need to revamp this landscape, isn’t it such a terrible waste and shame that some of the most brilliant and technically skilled individuals and teams around spend their days trying to figure out how to keep you on a site for 1 or 2 minutes longer? Days by day this figure goes down, while the loss in potential increases. If these skills were directed towards other productive capacities many of our social woes could be resolves, actual problems concerning dams and transportation systems and not how to make Candy Crush Saga just slightly more addictive. Like suburbia, the internet become a highly commercialized space because of the reluctance and taboo of imagining and designing alternatives. Ceglowski falls prey to this himself at the end of his speech, while his analysis is quite radical in tone his prescriptions do not significantly alter the landscape of the web, at best they trim its bushes. Is it that impossible to image the web as a possibly noncommercial space, a truly free and democratized space with no barriers to entry nor stay? This will take us to seek and intentionally design alternatives, not merely add regulations to the web, but take the extra step and imagine and online and offline landscape that is truly equitable and that promotes the value and dignity of human life regardless of ability to pay.



